---
layout: default
title: "Timothy C. May: From 'Anarchy' to 'Welfarism'"
permalink: may
---
<pre class="col">
TIMOTHY C. MAY: FROM 'ANARCHY' to 'WELFARISM'

1. Introduction

1.1. Copyright

TIMOTHY C. MAY: FROM 'ANARCHY' to 'WELFARISM', Version 1.0, 2022-05-20. No rights reserved. Please use as you like and kindly link to the original page or the print edition. Please include TIMOTHY C. MAY whenever quoting him from this book. Tim asks in his Cyphernomicon not to put any other name on his words but his, and we ought to respect that.

1.2. Forward

Coming soon (tm).

1.2.1 Stucture and Contents

I've organised this book as an A-Z lexicon of Timothy C. May's most interesting, insightful, and inflammatory online email and forum writing. This writing spans the course of over a decade as has hithero been difficult to access because it is scattered across thousands of emails on old forum archives. I've left out his stand-alone pieces like The Crypto-Anarchist Manifesto or the Cyphernomicon because they are better read in their entirety on their own.

1.3. Acknowledgements 

All material is written by Tim May, except as noted. Research, compilation, forward and editing by 0x000m. This work could not have been done without access to the Cypherpunk Mailing List plaintext archives of Ryan Lackey and their stylized archive on https://cryptoanarchy.wiki/ by Tom Busby.

2. Borders

2.1. "National borders are just speed bumps on the information superhighway." 1995-08-07 - Quibbling about definitions of “proof” https://mailing-list-archive.cryptoanarchy.wiki/archive/1995/08/096910121e38037aef2b4b9bb6400ee771c7ce372222b3a596adddd9add4d577/

3. Children

3.1 "I was reminded the other night by someone of the "'National security' is the root passphrase of the Constitution." The idea being that the normal Constitutional protections are bypassed by invocation of "national security." But it occurs to me that we are seeing a new variant of this: "Protect the children."

Some recent examples:

- Clinton's Executive Order today which limits advertising of cigarettes, limits the display of tobacco-related symbols and words on t-shirts, baseball caps, billboards, and publically-visible signs at sports events. (There were all kinds of details, most of them blatantly in violation of the First Amendment. I half-watched the Clinton announcement, but didn't take notes...consult your newspaper or the Web.)

The critical phrase: "We have to protect the children."

(Oh, and one amazing detail: the possible issuance of I.D. cards to all of those under the age of 18. Besides being useful for things like curfews, video tape rental prohibitions, and the cigarette ban, it would lead to I.D. cards for those over 18. naturally (if those over 18 don't have to carry them, then all a child less than 18 has to do is to claim not to have to carry one because he's 18!)

- The whole Exon and V-chip debates, now likely to be passed by Congress, are about "protecting children."

- and the Oklahoma City bombing, not that I supported it in any way, was seen as especially horrific because of the children that were killed. This means that restrictive legislation, such as bans on explosives information, guns, etc., can be justified as measures to "protect children."

And so on.

Now clearly this strategy will be welcomed by many. It's hard to argue against children and against the "protection of children." Arguing the
Constitutional side is tough when "the children" are at issue.

More speculatively, I think Clinton has hit on this strategy as a way to line up support from the Republican majority in Congress on many key issues. There may even be repercussions for welfare and health care issues (which Clinton can also cast as "protect the children" issues).

The potential crypto relevance? Look for arguments about limiting access to strong crypto to be more heavily focussed on "pedophiles" and "pornographers." Look for calls to have a national I.D. card--which serves many State-needed purposes (and I don't mean in terms of Revelations). A national I.D. card could then be tied in to GAK/escrow systems. "We have to protect the children." 1995-08-11 - “Protect the children” as passphrase to Constitution https://mailing-list-archive.cryptoanarchy.wiki/archive/1995/08/97fd968e94dd433641337c754a893e695a13d37f8e5364fa7406598b8e01a48e/

4. Cyberspace

4.1. "Bashing the cybernetic aspects of our culture is hot these days. I expect Oprah and Sally Jesse to soon be doing shows on this. Children whose mothers are Net addicts, brothers who kill their sisters for using "vi," and jilted cyberlovers who are in relationships with their shrinkwraps." 1995-08-08 - Slouka’s “War of the Worlds” (trashing of computers) https://mailing-list-archive.cryptoanarchy.wiki/archive/1995/08/dde7e50171fd289407933fc8fc8fcb96b2a631b9a9acc6e7b920fff22b288ec8/

5. Cypherpunks

5.1. "There's also a certain "control freak" attitude that creeps into this list (and other lists, of course) at times, wherein people say that their current interest is vastly more important than anything else and that anyone who does not drop their frivolous other interests and begin work immediately on the One True Project are fools and knaves, and are probably secretly working for the NSA! (:-}). People should write about what interests them. Those who wish to program, should program. Those who wish to explore number theory, should explore number theory. And so on. Attempting to control what gets posted on this list is pointless. If you don't like a particular topic, or an author, use filters and kill files...Insulting people as "ciphergroupies" because they are not working on one's current interest seems needlessly counterproductive. Just my views. If you don't like 'em, ignore them or filter them. That's the Cypherpunk way of doing things." 1995-08-10 - Conspiracies and “Ciphergroupies” https://mailing-list-archive.cryptoanarchy.wiki/archive/1995/08/1c8e7b55334c834d0281033946bb5c28a4566507452010917d6561ab49b432fd/

</pre>


