---
permalink: craig
---

CRAIG WRIGHT

There are two things about Craig Wright that I can't believe.

a. Craig is the genius behind Bitcoin. 

b. Craig is totally a fraud and scammer.

I don't see how anyone who understands Bitcoin, its history, or Craig
Wright, could believe either extreme. 

Well, it could be true, but things are too murky right now to take
either position. At least, in my opinion, you've got to WANT to
believe a or b is true in order to believe a or b. People who want
Craig to be Satoshi will see Satoshi. People who don't want him to be
Satoshi will see a fraud.

I don't really know what I want, which makes me perhaps uniquely
qualified to write about the way things actually are, or appear to
be. Sure, I think it would be hilarious for a foul-mouthed,
bragadocious Australian who is laughed at by the technical and
academic community to actually be the genius behind Bitcoin. The meme
is incredible. Sometimes I wish we'd all just pretend we believe he
is Satoshi for the lulz. But then I thinkâ€”you know, this guy is
really kind of an asshole and he says a lot of things that are
ridulous, and he's suing my friend Roger Ver, and maybe he's trying
to steal the Satoshi coins, and maybe it would be best if he were not
Satoshi after all. Then I see something that reminds me that despite
his behavior, he's actually a human being with feelings and intellect
and friends and family, and a whole life that he has lived and all
the scars to prove it, and things aren't as black and white as they
seem, and maybe, just maybe, he's a more sympathetic character than
peoole realise. I've certainly had great interactions on Twitter with
him over the years and really miss what I would consider the 
'old' Craig. And then he threatens on Slack to sue me for a hate crime
 because of a funny meme I posted of a fake Tweet from him and.....

I find myself changing my mind about this so often that I've realised
that all I really want is the truth. Is it messy? Does it shatter the
myth of Satoshi? Does it reveal Satoshi to be a fraud? Or a braggart?
Or a weird cross between genius and idiot? Is it a hilarious? Just
give me the truth!

So I wrote this as some notes on where I think things stand, from the
perspective of someone who neither hates Craig nor worships him, who
at the same time dislikes him and likes him, who finds him cringe and
funny, and incredibly intelligent and laughably stupid all at once.

I know this won't make a lot of people happy because they are
peronally invested in having a nice, neat answer that fits whatever
mental bubble they've trapped themselves in, and I could be wrong
about everything, but I don't think I am.

And while I don't think people will be happy, I think they ought to
be, because I'm going to try to give a plausible answer that allows
both groups a and b to save face with eachother and claim some margin
of victory (obviously, only I am the one who is truly victorious
here, and of course people I list in my acklowldgement section)

*

So I want to start off with a story that might be true. I don't know
if it's true but as you'll see later on, it makes a lot of sense when
you really approach it as someone who has no need for it to be true
or false. For the purposes of this story, we accept that Craig is
both instrumental to the creation of Bitcoin AND kind of a fraud
(please don't sue me Mr. Craig sir). 

Our story can begin much earlier than this, but maybe that's better
for a prequel and we should start in media res. I don't have a
precise date but let's guess it's the year 2004.

The spirit of the glorious 90s has not yet died but its on life
support. Greenday released American Idiot. Ben Stiller was the king
of comedy with Dodgeball, Along Came Polly, and Meet the Fockers. And
I was in the 4th grade.

Our hero, or villain, or both, Craig Wright, is working in the online
gambling industry doing, I don't know, something technical, for a
company called Lasseters. Lasseters. In 2001, Lasseters had become
the only online casino able to operate legally in Australia, and it
was one of, if not the, largest online gambling company in the world
(if its not, don't @ me, it's not essential).

Since the first online gambling sites had launched way back in the
90s, the customer base had exploded. Online gambling was HOT. People
like Calvin Ayre made their fortunes in this early wild west of
internet gambling. Millions. Then billions. But things were rotten in
Denmark and these sunshine days were both about to end, and in fact
not all perfect anyways.

Online gambling had serious problems. Some of these problems were
technical, economic or social in nature. Credit card fraud was high.
Users on the sites would fund their accounts with fraudlent cards, or
simply chargeback their payments after doing their gaming. High fraud
meant a lot of payment processors or banks didn't want to deal with
companies like Lasseters.

Worse, the Feds were about to ruin the party like they always do, and
the signs were surely on the wall in 2004. Let's assume that it was
around this time that Craig realised that online gambling needed a
new way to handle payments online if it was going to continue in its
current form. He'd been on the Cypherpunk Mailing List for years,
mostly as a fly on the wall, though occasionally getting into spats
with people like Julian Assange, and he was at least familiar with
the idea of e-cash that the Cypherpunks had been working on for
years.

Craig decides that he's going to try to develop an e-cash system that
he can sell or license to gambling companies. This e-cash might have
the following characteristics that are absolutely essential to
success in online gambling.

1. Final settlement - no chargebacks. 
2. Micropayments - because without micropayments, internet gamlbing is 
limited tremendously. 
3. No middlemen - because then the government or banks could stop you
from making a payment. 
4. Private - people don't want to have to disclose to a company if they are 
gambling illegally from their home country on a VPN.

For a while, Craig isn't working on this in earnest, but in 2006, the
Feds pass the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act.

From WikiPedia: "The UIGEA prohibits gambling businesses
from "knowingly accepting payments in connection with the
participation of another person in a bet or wager that involves the
use of the Internet and that is unlawful under any federal or state
law."

There's a lot more to the UIGEA, but all we really need to know is
that online gambling was fucked bigly. Craig knew this, so around
2006/2007 he starts working on this full time. Incidentally, Satoshi
said he started working on Bitcoin around 2007.

So Craig is working on this e-cash to profit off the situation in the
gambling industry and he gets his friend Dave Kleiman involved a bit.
I don't think we can ever know how much, but Dave probably at least
knew about what Craig was working on.

What was this e-cash called? Maybe it was called Bit Coin. We will
probably never know and its not that important, because whatever
Craig was working on was NOT what became Bitcoin. In fact, Craig
quickly realised he was over his head and started looking online for
people who could help him. But nobody could. See, anyone who was
anyone in the e-cash world had already decided that true e-cash was
never going to happen. It was impossibe. One can imagine Craig being
rejected and laughed at and insulted over and over during this time,
but he kept up, and miraculously he found someone who could help
him.






